[MUSIC]
>> Speaker 1: The router is an area of the
app that few people have trouble with, but
also few people understand deeply enough
to take advantage of its true potential.
So there's one router per app.
Until we get engines,
there's just one router per app.
And the purpose of the router is to
manage transitions between URLs.
You can think of this as
a finite state machine where
essentially you're going from
URL A to URL B and it will,
based on the intent of the user to
get between these two states, it will
take you through a series of logical steps
where you can do some important things.
Most of your work will be
basically filling in the blank for
the router,
which is that mapping of URLs to states.
An additional need to get into it
might be if you want to instrument
page views in a single page app.
Obviously pasting it in a Google Analytics
snipit is not gonna fly because,
technically, there is one page view for
a single page app, and
that's when you first enter it and
load the page.
So the router is what you
would listen to monitor and
beacon out information about that state.
And there's a micro library at the core.
This is one of those micro libraries that
we went over, and it's called router.js.
So you can think of it this way.
The Ember.Router builds on router.js,
and at its core is route-recognizer.
I'm explaining this to you because
when we start thinking about testing,
we're gonna look at something else
that also depends on toute-recognizer,
and I wanna make sure you guys
get the parallels between them.
So here's how route-recognizer works,
and there are some key takeaways here.
One is how do we define paths, and
these are an abstraction of a URL, right?
So you see I've got things
called route handlers and
we will give it,
we will give this route handler a name.
Ember actually calls them
routes as opposed to routers.
And it's something that deals
with being in that state or
transitioning through that state.
So in this case /posts/:id/comments.
You can fill in that blank.
You can fill in that ID with just
about anything except a forward slash.
So post/37/comments.
That fits this first route handler.
That matches it.
You can have route handlers for
static paths that don't
have this blank to fill in.
If I say dynamic segment
that's what I mean.
ID is a dynamic segment.
And then finally we can use
what we call a star segment,
and this is another often overlooked and
unappreciated feature of being
able to work with the router.
The differences between the star segment
and the segment starting with a colon
is that forward slash will be
matched when you use this last one.
And the use case here would be a 404 page,
where you want,
essentially, a catchall as
the lowest priority route.
If you make it through all of your routes,
and they
are prioritized in terms of
the order in which you define them.
So, if you're lowest priority
catchall is something like this,
potentially exactly like this,
/startpath, and
you say that goes to not found,
then you've given Ember
some way to handle everything, ultimately,
if it makes it all the way down.
So, and this is basically
all route-recognizer does,
you give it URL, it will return
the first available handler.
And again, order matters,
it'll return the first available handler.
So, higher up in the file
is higher priority.
What router.js adds
to this is it makes
the handler more specific and
it builds it into this,
it adds this concept of the state machine.
It is super, super simple, and
all I want you to really look at is
most of this top left, we'll come back
to this slide, but here I'm saying,
if you give me post/id,
which could be post/37,
I want to deal with this by going
to a route handler called showPost.
And there is some mechanism for actually
doing something with that information.